
---Functional Programming vs Object Oriented Programming
When you anticipate a different kind of software evolution:

Object-oriented languages are good when you have a fixed set of operations on things, and as your code evolves, you primarily add new things. 
This can be accomplished by adding new classes which implement existing methods, and the existing classes are left alone.

Functional languages are good when you have a fixed set of things, and as your code evolves, you primarily add new operations on existing things. 
This can be accomplished by adding new functions which compute with existing data types, and the existing functions are left alone.

When evolution goes the wrong way, you have problems:

Adding a new operation to an object-oriented program may require editing many class definitions to add a new method.

Adding a new kind of thing to a functional program may require editing many function definitions to add a new case.

This problem has been well known for many years; in 1998, Phil Wadler dubbed it the "expression problem". 
Although some researchers think that the expression problem can be addressed with such language features as mixins, a widely accepted solution has yet to hit the mainstream.
https://stackoverflow.com/questions/2078978/functional-programming-vs-object-oriented-programming

---Functinoal Programming
Functional programming is the form of programming that attempts to avoid changing state and mutable data. 
In a functional program, the output of a function should always be the same, given the same exact inputs to the function.

Functional programming provides the advantages like efficiency, lazy evaluation, nested functions, bug-free code, parallel programming. 
In simple language, functional programming is to write the function having statements to execute a particular task for the application. 
Each small function does its part and only its part. The function can be easily invoked and reused at any point. 
It also helps the code to be managed and the same thing or statements does not need to be written again and again.
It allows for very modular and clean code that all works together in harmony.

https://medium.com/@shaistha24/functional-programming-vs-object-oriented-programming-oop-which-is-better-82172e53a526

----Object Oriented Language
Object oriented programming is a programming paradigm in which you program using objects to represent things you are programming about (sometimes real world things). 
These objects could be data structures. The objects hold data about them in attributes. 
The attributes in the objects are manipulated through methods or functions that are given to the object.

For instance, we might have a Person object that represents all of the data a person would have: weight, height, skin color, hair color, hair length, and so on. 
Those would be the attributes. Then the person object would also have things that it can do such as: pick box up, put box down, eat, sleep, etc. 
These would be the functions that play with the data the object stores.
The main deal with OOP is the ability to encapsulate data from outsiders. 
Encapsulation is the ability to hide variables within the class from outside access — which makes it great for security reasons, along with leaky, unwanted or accidental usage. 
Most programmers using object oriented design say that it is a style of programming that allows you to model real world scenarios much simpler. 
This allows for a good transition from requirements to code that works like the customer or user wants it to.

---静态语言 动态语言
静态类型的语言
如果在编译时知道变量的类型，则语言是静态类型的。对于某些语言来说，这意味着你作为程序员必须指定每个变量的类型（例如：Java，C，C ++）。
其他语言提供某种形式的类型推断，类型系统能够推导变量的类型（例如：OCaml，Haskell，Scala，Kotlin）
这里的主要优点是编译器可以进行各种检查，因此很早就发现了很多微不足道的错误。

动态类型的语言
如果类型与运行时间值相关联，则语言是动态类型的，而不是命名变量/字段/等。
这意味着你作为一个程序员可以写得更快一点，因为你不必每次指定类型（除非使用静态类型语言和类型推断）。例如：Perl，Ruby，Python

---Scala 总结

---Scala 与其他语言的共同之处

---Scala独有的地方
implicit, traits
